Adds 1.12.1 release notes (#7150)
dapr/dapr: docs/release_notes/v1.12.1.md

# Dapr 1.12.1

This update contains the following security fixes:

> - Security: prevent Sentry and Injector from applying the `daprsystem` Configuration from a non control plane namespace.

Reviewer: Please make these bullet points links to the headings below, so people can just "click"

- Fixed RabbitMQ not returning error when initialising component.
- Fixed returning of HTTP status code in HTTP service invocation with resiliency enabled
- Fixed Dapr Runtime panic for malformed/unexpected workflow URLs

## Security: Sentry and Injector only apply `daprsystem` Configuration from the control plane namespace

### Problem

Sentry and Injector will apply the `daprsystem` configuration from a non-control plane namespace if the namespace name is alphabetically higher than the control plane namespace name.

### Impact

Accidentally or maliciously, a Kubernetes user can write a Configuration in a non-control plane namespace that will be applied by Sentry and Injector.
This can re-write the Sentry CA, disable mTLS, or otherwise bring down the entire Dapr cluster.

### Root cause

Sentry and Injector currently list Configurations, before matching on the list for the `daprsystem` Configuration, without filtering for namespaces.

### Solution

Update Sentry and Injector to only get the `daprsystem` Configuration from the namespace where the Dapr control plane is installed, instead of listing all Configurations.

## Fixed Sentry rejecting valid requests from Daprd

> 

Reviewer: I can't leave a comment below, but let's not talk about "Daprds".

```
## Fixed Sentry rejecting valid requests from Daprd

### Problem

Dapr fails to request an identity certificate from Sentry when residing in a Namespace or using a Service Account with a sufficiently-long name.

### Impact

Users on Dapr 1.12.0 can observe Dapr sidecars failing to start.

### Root cause

Sentry validates that clients cannot request for an app ID which is over 64 characters in length.
Sentry also still accepts requests which use the legacy identifier of `<namespace>:<service account>` which was not taken account for when doing the 64 character evaluation.
```

RabbitMQ was not returning an error when initialising a component, causing Dapr to consider the component healthy.

### Solution

Failure to connecting to RabbitMQ during initialization now causes an error to be returned, allowing Dapr to consider the component as unhealthy.

## Fixed returning of HTTP status code in HTTP service invocation with resiliency enabled

### Problem

With Resiliency enabled, in case of HTTP service invocation, if one application sends error status codes (HTTP codes <200 or >=400), Dapr returns a response with a generic 500 error, instead of the actual response error code.

### Impact

Applications will receive the wrong status code in case of HTTP service invocation returning a failure error code with Resiliency enabled.

### Root cause

A bug was discovered in how errors were handled when Resiliency was enabled, causing all errors from the application to be "swallowed" by Dapr.

### Solution

Resiliency code now returns the correct status code to the application.

## Fixed Dapr Runtime panic for malformed/unexpected workflow URLs

### Problem

Invoking certain Workflow APIs using HTTP with malformed URLs can cause Dapr to panic.

### Impact

> Impacts users on Dapr 1.12.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Impacts users on Dapr 1.12.0.

```

### Solution

Sentry now evaluates the actual app ID being requested, whether or not the client is using the legacy or app ID as the identifier.

## Fixed RabbitMQ not returning error when initialising component

### Problem

A RabitMQ component may be considered healthy, when in fact it failed to initialise.

### Impact

Dapr or downstream consumers of Dapr would consider RabitMQ components to be healthy when in fact it they were not, causing improper reporting of status.

### Root cause

RabbitMQ was not returning an error when initialising a component, causing Dapr to consider the component healthy.

### Solution

> IF RabbitMQ errors during initialisation the error is now returned, causing Dapr to consider the component to have failed initialisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failure to connecting to RabbitMQ during initialization now causes an error to be returned, allowing Dapr to consider the component as unhealthy.
```

## Fixed returning of HTTP status code in HTTP service invocation with resiliency enabled

### Problem

With Resiliency enabled, in case of HTTP service invocation, if one application sends error status codes (HTTP codes <200 or >=400), Dapr returns a response with a generic 500 error, instead of the actual response error code.

### Impact

Applications will receive the wrong status code in case of HTTP service invocation returning a failure error code with Resiliency enabled.

### Root cause

A bug was discovered in how errors were handled when Resiliency was enabled, causing all errors from the application to be "swallowed" by Dapr.

### Solution

Resiliency code now returns the correct status code to the application.

## Fixed Dapr Runtime panic for malformed/unexpected workflow URLs

### Problem

> When invoking workflows with invalid URLs, Daprd would panic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoking certain Workflow APIs using HTTP with malformed URLs can cause Dapr to panic.
```

### Impact

> Daprd would panic, causing the application to no longer be connected to the Dapr cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Impacts users on Dapr 1.12.0
```

### Solution

Sentry now evaluates the actual app ID being requested, whether or not the client is using the legacy or app ID as the identifier.

## Fixed RabbitMQ not returning error when initialising component

### Problem

A RabitMQ component may be considered healthy, when in fact it failed to initialise.

### Impact

> Dapr or downstream consumers of Dapr would consider RabitMQ components to be healthy when in fact it they were not, causing improper reporting of status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dapr or downstream consumers of Dapr would consider RabitMQ components to be healthy when in fact they were not, causing improper reporting of status.
```

### Root cause

RabbitMQ was not returning an error when initialising a component, causing Dapr to consider the component healthy.

### Solution

> Failure to connecting to RabbitMQ during initialization now causes an error to be returned, allowing Dapr to consider the component as unhealthy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Failure to connect to RabbitMQ during initialization now causes an error to be returned, allowing Dapr to consider the component as unhealthy.
```

### Problem

Invoking certain Workflow APIs using HTTP with malformed URLs can cause Dapr to panic.

### Impact

Impacts users on Dapr 1.12.0.

### Root cause

The Daprd metrics handler for workflows did not correctly handle malformed or unexpected URLs, and would panic if the URL was not in the expected format.

### Solution

The Daprd metrics handler for workflows now correctly handles malformed or unexpected URLs.

## Fixed an issue where Azure Blob Storage components cannot be used with Azure Blob Reader permission alone

### Problem

The Azure Blob Storage component cannot be used with Azure Blob Reader permission alone.

### Impact

Users on Dapr 1.12.0 cannot use the Azure Blob Storage component with Azure Blob Reader permission alone.

### Root Cause

The component attempts to create a storage account (even when it exists already) but is not authorized to do so due to a lack of permission.

### Solution

Added a boolean metadata option disableEntityManagement which now can be used to skip the attempt to create the storage container.

## Fixed incorrect error message in the Azure EventHubs components

### Problem

> Azure EventHub component returns warning message says the storageAccountKey will be used but StorageAccountName is actually used in that condition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Azure EventHub component returns a warning message saying the storageAccountKey will be used but StorageAccountName is actually used in that condition.
```

### Impact

Users on Dapr 1.12.0 may be confused by the warning message.

### Root Cause

The component was using the StorageAccountName instead of the StorageAccountKey.

### Solution

The component now emits the correct warning message.

## Fixes an issue where the Consul nameresolution component only accepted IP addresses and not hostnames.

### Problem

Dapr 1.12.0 was unable to add and resolve hostnames using the Consul nameresolution component.

### Impact

Users on Dapr 1.12.0 were unable to resolve hostnames using the Consul nameresolution component.

### Root Cause

A previous community contribution to improve IPv6 support inadvertently removed support for host names by returning an error for any string that does not parse as an IPv4 or IPv6 address.

### Solution

Support for hostnames was added once again.

## Fixes an issue in the Redis PubSub component where a PubSub subscription could not recover under certain conditions.

### Problem

The Redis PubSub component could experience a rare situation where PubSub subscriptions would seize to function, causing the Dapr sidecar to print Redis error logs containing the word `NOGROUP` indefinitely.

### Root Cause

> The `NOGROUP` message is indicative of the consumer group no longer existing. This could be because the group or stream were manually deleted outside of Dapr or because the external Redis server was restarted/reconfigured.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `NOGROUP` message is indicative of the consumer group no longer existing. This could be because the group or stream was manually deleted outside of Dapr or because the external Redis server was restarted/reconfigured.
```

### Solution

> To avoid the excessive `NOGROUP` logs in this rare situation Dapr will now attempt to recreate the consumer group for the given topic / stream when this error is encountered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To avoid the excessive `NOGROUP` logs in this rare situation Dapr will now attempt to recreate the consumer group for the given topic/stream when this error is encountered.
```
